# 06-09-2024

- TPO 001, and 002 Readings *listening test*

Exam summary:

| Exam Title | Score on TPO | Easy+ Score | Hard+ Score |
| ---------- | ------------ | ----------- | ----------- |
| TPO_001    | 24           | 28          | 30          |

---
## Skills

### General
Although, listening itself is a independent section, but the listening skill is requires in integrated skills, such as writing and speaking. So, it is better to train this way too.

To improve all these skills which initially are approached to you by listening to a conversation/lecture ([reference](https://bettertoeflscores.com/toefl-ibt-listening-take-control-by-doing-three-homework-exercises/1491/)): ^ea1d0c
1. Find videos with academic topics. As you listen, 
	1. ***note-take*** the most important points (Do not focus on the unimportant details)
	2. Using your notes, ***orally speak for 60 seconds*** being as accurate as you can.
	3. Additionally, using your notes, write a ***summary*** of the ideas.
2. Practice [[#^98ea42|dictation]] for each video (or a subset of it). Especially, sections that you lost the track of some details (since it is time consuming to do it for all the video)

Paying attention to the three areas will help you to be a better note-taker and listener ([reference](https://bettertoeflscores.com/three-tips-for-better-listening-on-the-toefl-ibt/279/)):
1. **Rhetorical Cues**: you should listen for signal words and phrases that create a coherent flow of information: to introduce new information, to connect ideas, and to emphasize important points.
	- **Addition**: _and, also, besides, further, furthermore, in addition, moreover, next, too, first, second_
	- **Example**: _for example, for instance, to illustrate, in fact, specifically_
	- **Compare**: _in the same manner, similarly, likewise_
	- **Contrast**: _but, however, on the other hand, in contrast, nevertheless, still, on the contrary, even though, yet, although_
	- **Time**: _after, as, before, next, during, later, finally, meanwhile, then, when, while, immediately_
	- **Place/Direction**: _above, below, beyond, farther on, nearby, opposite, close, to the left_
	- **Summary/Conclusion**: _in other words, in short, in summary, in conclusion, to sum up, that is, therefore_
	- **Logical Relationship/Cause-effect**: _if, so, therefore, consequently, thus, as a result, for this reason, since_
2. **Focus Words**: important stressed words within speakers’ ideas. Speakers typically organize speech into thought groups, there is a focus word(s) more prominently stressed than other content words such as nouns, adjectives, adverbs, or verbs. The focus word represents new information. (you will see more pauses from the speaker for each focus group)
	> To continue our discussion about **environmental** issues, / let’s take a look at a very **hot** issue:/ **leaf blowers**. / Many regard them as being **hazardous** to our **health**. / In fact, a gasoline-powered leaf blower **generates** / as much tailpipe **emissions** in one **hour** / as an automobile does over **350** **miles**. / The difference is that a car emits all that **pollution** over a big stretch of **road**, / while a leaf blower deposits it all in one **back** or **front** **yard**. /
3. **Pausing**: At the end of a final thought group, there is a sharp drop in pitch, which indicates that the speaker is done with his statement, at which time another speaker may begin speaking.

PS: *there is a test case on the reference link if you wanna see if you got the idea correctly. I did it with about 90% accuracy so I guess I am good.*

>[!note] 
>This is not something you should focus actually in an test directly, rather get the skill overtime so it happens naturally. You can initially pay attention when [[#^ea1d0c|training listening]] skill in general form.

### Listening

#### Instructions

#### General
This section tells you what to do when you deal with a listening (independent and integrated tasks). Note that this is not for a specific question type, rather for the ability to better deal with listening items that is the baseline for understanding the conversations/lectures you hear.

>[!success] Core idea + critical supporting points

How to exercise the dictation ([reference](https://bettertoeflscores.com/music-and-toefl-ibt-listening-have-fun-while-you-listen/685/)): ^98ea42
1. listen to an audio (anything, music, podcast, etc. but max 5 mins) and write down every single word you hear (you can replay/pause as many times as you want)
2. compare your transcript with the official transcript
3. pay close attention to where you incorrectly transcribed the audio; listen again to improve the mistaken part
4. create a play list of about 30 items by doing step 1-3. Now listen to this playlist when you do your day-to-day activities

>[!warning] Turn of the CAPTIONS!
>One of the issues I created for myself was that because I didn't want the noise to bother others when using my phone (I rarely watch anything), I used to turn down the voice a lot and just read the captions. This damages the listening skill massively.

##### The main idea Qs
Other names are the main gist, overall purpose, etc.

- Sometimes the gist is directly said in the conversation/lecture
- Sometimes you have to infer the gist and there is no direct mention of it

>[!note] 
>The ability to answer the "gist" questions allows you to do better on listening, writing and speaking. (relevance of the ideas you present as part of the writing/speaking has way more points that let's say typo.)

How to improve:
1. listen more (obviously)
2. increase your note taking skills (having big picture along the details)
3. during listening, do not just focus on details. See how details are related to the main idea, so just take notes of those details instead of all the details.
4. 
#### My Mistakes
For the main idea question, because I assumed that questions are harder than normal all the time, *there is no way that the idea that was directly mentioned by the speaker is the correct answer* (see [[#The main idea Qs]]). I assumed it is a trick question. (e.g., TPO_001, Listening, Q1)
### Vocab

#### TOEFL connecting words
During TOEFL reading and listening passages, authors and speakers will use TOEFL connecting words for a variety of purposes:  to introduce a list of important ideas (i.e., first of all), to emphasize important points (i.e., indeed), to show cause-effect (i.e., inasmuch as), to indicate a time sequence (i.e., when), and so on. Paying attention and understanding the causal relationships of TOEFL connecting words will help you to connect the important parts of the passages more effectively. Therefore, you will be able to improve your reading and listening comprehension. Of course, that means you will improve your reading and listening subtotal scores ([reference](https://bettertoeflscores.com/toefl-connecting-words/8715/)).

You can find a comprehensive list of connecting/transitive words [here online](https://bettertoeflscores.com/toefl-transition-words/10249/) or [[toefl-transition-words-by-bettertoeflscores.com.pdf]].

